Now one thing that's always been
difficult in enterprise to Java
development is getting data in and out
of a database. The old days when you define dial
patterns and just straight up JDBC
became very very resource intensive it's
a lot of code that you had to write a
lot of SQL so we're going to talk about
spring data JPA. Now you might be
wondering what is spring data JPA. The
first thing we need to talk about is
spring data repositories. This provides
us an implementation of the repository
pattern. Now this concept is originally
from Eric Evans' book Domain Driven
Design now he says repository has
methods for retrieving domain objects
should delegate to a specialized
Repository object such that alternative storage
implementations may be interchanged. Now
this concept is very important because
it allows us to easily substitute the
persistence layer like what if we're on
a SQL database we going to go to a No
SQL database so it really abstracts out
that persistence layer. Now Spring Data
JPA is a subset of a larger family of
Spring Data projects. Spring Data JPA
uses Hibernate for persistence to
support it
relational database systems and really
just about any major relational database
is going to work with this. Now to use
bring data JPA you extend out a Java
Repository Interface and Spring Data JPA
is gonna provide the implementation at
runtime. The cool part is there's No SQL as
required
that's something that I really like
because I am very comfortable using SQL.
I kind of cut my teeth on the Oracle
database and SQL was like a second
language to me. I knew it far longer before
Java but SQL when you're doing Java
development is kind of burdensome
it can be very database specific too
depending on that, so depending on what
you're using and how you're writing it
if you use an ANSI SQL great me not so
much.
Guilty. But what we're going to do is
look at using spring data JPA and we're
not going to write any SQL at all I'm
not going to write any doubts
no transaction management, no database
connections, that's all gonna be managed
for us by the Spring Sramework. Really
all we need to do is take a Spring Data
JPA Repository Interface and extend it
and there's actually a ready-made one
for CRUD operations and CRUD is create,
update and delete so standard CRUD
operations and it gives us methods to
find an object, to save an object, to
search for an object so it get all
objects so that there's a number of
ready-made methods there on that
interface and all we need to do is
extend it and give it our entity type
and then what's going to happen is at
runtime, Spring Data JPA
is going to give us an implementation of
that, inject it into whatever class we
ask it to that were doing persistent
operations with whether we're storing
something or fetching it out of the
database and it will handle all
the heavy lifting for us it will work
with hibernate it will do transaction
management get that database connection
so all that is going to be taken care of
for us all we need to do is write this
interface and use it so I'm going to
jump over to IntelliJ now and show you
exactly how to do that. Okay I'm back in
our project here and just as a recap we
only have the two entities here Author
and Book so pretty standard stuff here
and they're just plain POJO's but they're
marked as JPA entities so these are all
set up to be persisted with Hibernate
now by convention what you normally see
people do is create a New Package and
for repositories so not mandatory you do
this but it is a commonly accepted to do
so and what we're going to do is create
a New Java Class and we want to say it's
an Interface and we're going to call it
the AuthorRepository.
and we are going to make him extend the
Spring data CrudRepository so you can
see right there I have the Spring data
CrudRepository and it's going to use
Java Generics taken the type and the ID
and that's exactly what we're going to
do. So say the type is Author and now for
the ID just to show you we used Long
for the ID so that's exactly what we
want to do now. Optionally we could have
used a String or an Integer or some
other value and I mean there's
several different keys that we could use
for the database but in this case we
are using a Long data type now just to
show you what's going to happen under
the covers here, I'm going to drill into
that and this is what's going to get
implemented for us so this is a CrudRepository and earlier in the video I
said create, update, delete, it's actually
create, read, update and delete so I often
forget the R as being a read so I
think create notes CR but it's great
read update and delete so we get a
method there to save an object or we can
save a list of objects an iterable list
so we can save many at once. We can find
by ID we can check to see if it exists
and then we also have findAll or
findAllById where we can take in a list of
IDs and then we have several options
here to get a count and then three
different variants of deleting the
object so this is a list of standard CRUD
operations and the last thing we need to
do is also implement our BookRepository.
I'm going to say that's an interface and
this time it's gonna be Book and we
also did a Long value for that, make sure
we get the right one and that's all we
need to do so now Spring Data is going
to see these and wire them into our
Spring context for us and they will be
available for our use.
Now if you've done Java development and
access databases before and use like a
DAO pattern or maybe straight up JDBC
hope we didn't use JDBC that can be
awful at times but if you have, you know
how burdensome that is and how
time-consuming it is. Now I just created
two interfaces and I have complete CRUD
operations for two different entities in
my database now if I was doing that by
hand with a JDBC or a DAO pattern it
probably cost me all afternoon to wire
up those two entities so you can see
it's like a force multiplier
practically you get so much productivity
out of using tools like Spring Data JPA
it really is great for doing simple CRUD
operations and even more complex
operations because we didn't really get
into some of the more in-depth stuff
that you can do with Spring Data JPA
right now we're just doing an
introduction to get your feet level is
using Spring Data JPA, we'll
definitely get into some more advanced example later on in the course but
I hope you can appreciate what a
time-saver Spring Data JPA is for us.